Choose ASP.NET Core web UI Decision Tree (#22635)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/tutorials/choose-web-ui.md

A client rendered app dynamically renders web UI on the client, directly updating the browser DOM as necessary.

Benefits:

* Takes advantage of the capabilities of the user’s device.
* Allows for rich interactivity that is instant, without requiring a round trip to the server. UI event handling and logic run locally on the user's device with minimal latency. Choose a client rendered application if your app's requirements include rich user interactions.
* Supports incremental updates, saving partially completed forms or documents without the user having to select a button to submit a form.
* Can be designed to run in a disconnected mode. Updates to the client-side model that are eventually synchronized back to the server once a connection is re-established.

Examples of client rendered web UI:

* An interactive dashboard.
* An app featuring drag-and-drop functionality
* A responsive and collaborative social app.

Drawbacks:

* Code for the logic has to be downloaded and executed on the client, adding to the initial load time.
* Client requirements may exclude user's who have low-end devices, older browser versions, or low-bandwidth connections.

> ## Choose a predominantly server rendered ASP.NET Core UI solution

Author: I am trying to avoid saying the server rendered options are all server here, since they have the flexibility of becoming hybrid with client side rendering, and technically there is some client side going on, such as with forms using MVC.  "predominantly" is really clunky though.

MVC benefits, in addition to the server rendering:

* Some developers consider it easier to scale the web UI app in terms of complexity. They feel it's easier to code, debug, and test the model, view, or controller when it has a single job.
* Clear [separation of concerns](/dotnet/standard/modern-web-apps-azure-architecture/architectural-principles#separation-of-concerns) for maximum flexibility.
* The Model-View-Controller separation of responsibilities ensures that the business model can evolve without being tightly coupled to low-level implementation details.

To get started with  ASP.NET Core MVC, see [Get started with MVC](xref:tutorials/first-mvc-app/start-mvc). For an overview of ASP.NET Core MVC's architecture and benefits, see [Overview of ASP.NET Core MVC](xref:mvc/overview)

## Choose a predominantly client rendered ASP.NET Core solution

The following section briefly explains the ASP.NET Core web UI client rendered models available and provides links to get started.

### Blazor

> Blazor apps are composed of Blazor components: reusable, web UI components implemented using C#, HTML, and CSS. Both client and server code are written in C#, allowing sharing code and libraries. Blazor components can be rendered or pre-rendered from views and pages.

Author: Here is what we currently have on the top entry point of content on the marketing oriented site:
"Blazor apps are composed of reusable web UI components implemented using C#, HTML, and CSS. "

I will go this route however of explicitly calling them Razor components and you have a very good point Like.  If we decide to do something different later, we should change it throughout the docs.

> Blazor apps are composed of Blazor components: reusable, web UI components implemented using C#, HTML, and CSS. Both client and server code are written in C#, allowing sharing code and libraries. Blazor components can be rendered or pre-rendered from views and pages.

Reviewer: Here's the cross-ref for the definition in the Blazor Overview. IIRC, this was reviewed/approved by @danroth27, but that was perhaps years ago with nit mods since then.

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/?view=aspnetcore-5.0#components

> Blazor apps are composed of Blazor components: reusable, web UI components implemented using C#, HTML, and CSS. Both client and server code are written in C#, allowing sharing code and libraries. Blazor components can be rendered or pre-rendered from views and pages.

Reviewer: ... and I see that in my edit I left "element" there. I'm not sure I feed great about it (element ... HTML element ... overload). There are synonyms, but the rest of the sentence scopes it cleanly. I don't think there's any danger of confusion really.

* Flexibility of direct access to server resources. For example:
  * Database.
  * Secrets, such as access key-values used for API calls to Azure storage.
* Uses a token-based security model, rather than using cookies. For example, cookies may not be enabled on the browser.

To get started with ASP.NET Core Blazor Server, see [Get started with Blazor](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/learn/aspnet/blazor-tutorial/intro). For an overview of ASP.NET Core Blazor Server, its architecture and benefits, see [Introduction to ASP.NET Core Blazor](xref:blazor/index).

### ASP.NET Core MVC plus hosted Blazor WebAssembly

MVC and Blazor are both part of the ASP.NET Core framework and are designed to be used together. Razor components can be integrated into Razor Pages and MVC apps in a hosted Blazor WebAssembly solution. When the page or view is rendered, components can be pre-rendered at the same time.

Choose ASP.NET Core MVC plus Blazor WebAssembly when these benefits best fit your Web UI app needs:

* Prerendering:
  * Executes Blazor components on the server and renders them into a page or view.
	* Improves the perceived load time of the app while interactivity is being set up.

> * Add islands of interactivity to existing views (pages), using the component tag helper.

Reviewer: I think 🤔 essential for this TH remark (i.e., drop the comma) ... and all THs are proper nouns ...

```suggestion
* Add islands of interactivity to existing views (pages) using the Component Tag Helper.
```

... or for sure if "with" is used ...

```suggestion
* Add islands of interactivity to existing views (pages) with the Component Tag Helper.
```

If you want to cross link it, it's at ....

```
[Component Tag Helper](xref:mvc/views/tag-helpers/builtin-th/component-tag-helper)
```

> To get started with ASP.NET Core MVC plus Blazor WebAssembly, see [Prerender and integrate ASP.NET Core Razor components](xref:blazor/components/prerendering-and-integration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started with ASP.NET Core MVC plus Blazor WebAssembly, see <xref:blazor/components/prerendering-and-integration>.
```

### ASP.NET Core Single Page Application (SPA) with JavaScript Frameworks such as Angular and React

Build client-side logic for ASP.NET Core apps using popular JavaScript frameworks, like [Angular](https://angular.io/) or [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/). ASP.NET Core provides project templates for Angular and React.

Benefits of ASP.NET Core SPA with JavaScript Frameworks, in addition to the client rendering benefits previously listed:

* The JavaScript runtime environment is already provided with the browser.
* Large community and mature ecosystem.
* Build client-side logic for ASP.NET Core apps using popular JS frameworks, like Angular and React, or build your client-side logic with .NET using Blazor.

Downsides:
* More coding languages, frameworks, and tools required.
* Difficult to share code so some logic may be duplicated.

To get started, see:

* [Use the Angular project template with ASP.NET Core](xref:spa/angular)
* [Use the React project template with ASP.NET Core](xref:spa/react)

## Next steps

For more information, see:

> * [Blazor hosting models: Server vs WebAssembly](xref:blazor/hosting-models)

Reviewer: Abbv. not permitted 😄 lol ...

```suggestion
* [Blazor hosting models: Server versus WebAssembly](xref:blazor/hosting-models)
```

> * [Provide an API for your web UI app: Compare gRPC services with HTTP APIS and SignalR](xref:grpc/comparison)

Reviewer: The title for this, *Compare gRPC services with HTTP APIs*, seems ok to **_Auto-Suck_**&trade; ...... "Auto-Suck" :smile: ... I can see it's going to *one of those days here*. :smile: lol

```suggestion
* <xref:grpc/comparison>
```

> * [Prerender and integrate ASP.NET Core Razor components](xref:blazor/components/prerendering-and-integration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <xref:blazor/components/prerendering-and-integration>
```

## Consider the benefits and costs of server rendered UI and client rendered UI

A helpful place to start is to consider if your web UI app will primarily benefit from pre-rendering UI on the server, or rendering UI at the client browser.

There are three general approaches to building modern web UI with ASP.NET Core:

* Apps that render UI from the server.
* Apps that render UI on the client in the browser.
* Hybrid apps that take advantage of both server and client UI rendering approaches. For example, most of the web UI is rendered on the server, and client rendered components are added as needed.

There are benefits and drawbacks to consider when rendering UI on the server or on the client.

### Considering a server rendered UI approach

A web UI app that renders on the server dynamically generates the page's HTML and CSS on the server. The page arrives at the client ready to display.

Benefits:

* The client requirements are minimal since the server does the work of logic and page generation:
  * Great for low-end devices and low-bandwidth connections.
  * Allows for a broad range of browser versions at the client.
  * Quick initial page load times.

>   * Minimal to no code to pull to the client.

Author: I put "minimal" in there since there is a bit of minimal JavaScript, thinking that was covered that way.  But I could be more explicit.  "Minimal to no JavaScript to pull to the client."

>   * Minimal to no code to pull to the client.

Reviewer 2: @guardrex  - but some folks will be using JavaScript won't they?

>   * Minimal to no code to pull to the client.

Reviewer: Yes, but it isn't strictly required ... I mean in terms of a *benefits* list for server-rendered. @wadepickett's latest update looks great to me.

>   * Minimal to no code to pull to the client.

Author: All good points, thanks Rick and Luke.

>   * Minimal to no code to pull to the client.

Author: @danroth27, does this work for you.  I ended up with "Minimal to no JavaScript to pull to the client."

* Supports incremental updates, saving partially completed forms or documents without the user having to select a button to submit a form.
* Can be designed to run in a disconnected mode. Updates to the client-side model that are eventually synchronized back to the server once a connection is re-established.

Examples of client rendered web UI:

* An interactive dashboard.
* An app featuring drag-and-drop functionality
* A responsive and collaborative social app.

Drawbacks:

* Code for the logic has to be downloaded and executed on the client, adding to the initial load time.
* Client requirements may exclude user's who have low-end devices, older browser versions, or low-bandwidth connections.

## Choose a predominantly server rendered ASP.NET Core UI solution

The following section briefly explains the ASP.NET Core web UI server rendered models available and directs next steps to get started. ASP.NET Core Razor Pages and ASP.NET Core MVC are server-based frameworks for building web apps with .NET.

### ASP.NET Core Razor Pages

> Razor Pages is a page-based model that is easy to get started with. UI and business logic concerns are kept separate, but within the page. Razor Pages is the preferred way to create page-based or form-based apps in ASP.NET Core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Razor Pages is a page-based model. UI and business logic concerns are kept separate, but within the page. Razor Pages is the recommended way to create new page-based or form-based apps for developers new to ASP.NET Core. Razor Pages provides an easier starting point than ASP.NET Core MVC.
```
RP is not easy, just look through our issues. It's easier than MVC, true. HTML Helpers are not easy.
As written will generate a lot of hate issues from the MVC faithful.

> Razor Pages benefits, in addition to the server rendering benefits previously listed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Razor Pages benefits, in addition to the server rendering benefits:
```

> * Quickly build and update UI. What you need to code for the page is kept with the page, while keeping UI and business logic concerns separate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Quickly build and update UI.  Code for the page is kept with the page, while keeping UI and business logic concerns separate.
```
Not all the code is kept in the page.

* Testable and scales to large apps.

> * Keep your ASP.NET Core pages organized in a simpler way:

Reviewer 2: Page organization is simpler than the ASP.NET Core MVC approach.

>   * All view (page) specific logic and page properties (view model) can be kept together in their own namespace and directory.

Reviewer 2: We like to avoid parenthetical expressions. Chose one:

```suggestion
  * View specific logic and page properties can be kept together in their own namespace and directory.
```

```suggestion
  * View specific logic and view models can be kept together in their own namespace and directory.
```

  * Groups of related pages can be kept in their own namespace and directory.

To get started with your first ASP.NET Core Razor Pages app, see [Get started with Razor Pages](xref:tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start). For a complete overview of ASP.NET Core Razor Pages, its architecture and benefits, see: [Introduction to Razor Pages in ASP.NET Core](xref:razor-pages/index)

### ASP.NET Core MVC

> ASP.NET MVC renders UI on the server and uses a Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectural pattern. The MVC pattern separates an application into three main groups of components: Models, Views, and Controllers. User requests are routed to a Controller. The Controller is responsible for working with the Model to perform user actions and, or retrieve results of queries. The Controller chooses the View to display to the user, and provides it with any Model data it requires. Support for Razor Pages is built on ASP.NET Core MVC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ASP.NET MVC renders UI on the server and uses a Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectural pattern. The MVC pattern separates an app into three main groups of components: Models, Views, and Controllers. User requests are routed to a controller. The controller is responsible for working with the model to perform user actions or retrieve results of queries. The controller chooses the view to display to the user, and provides it with any model data it requires. Support for Razor Pages is built on ASP.NET Core MVC.
```

> MVC benefits, in addition to the server rendering benefits previously listed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MVC benefits, in addition to the server rendering:
```

> * Easier to scale the web UI application in terms of complexity. It's easier to code, debug, and test something (model, view, or controller) that has a single job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Some developers consider it easier to scale the web UI app in terms of complexity. They feel it's easier to code, debug, and test the model, view, or controller when it has a single job.
```
@danroth27  This is another hotly debated point. You can also partition RP

* Clear [separation of concerns](/dotnet/standard/modern-web-apps-azure-architecture/architectural-principles#separation-of-concerns) for maximum flexibility.
* The Model-View-Controller separation of responsibilities ensures that the business model can evolve without being tightly coupled to low-level implementation details.

> To get started with your first ASP.NET Core MVC app, see [Get started with MVC](xref:tutorials/first-mvc-app/start-mvc). For a complete overview of ASP.NET Core MVC, its architecture and benefits, see [Overview of ASP.NET Core MVC](xref:mvc/overview)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started with  ASP.NET Core MVC , see [Get started with MVC](xref:tutorials/first-mvc-app/start-mvc). For an overview of ASP.NET Core MVC's architecture and benefits, see [Overview of ASP.NET Core MVC](xref:mvc/overview)
```

## Choose a predominantly client rendered ASP.NET Core solution

> The following section briefly explains the ASP.NET Core web UI client rendered models available and directs you to the next steps to get started.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following section briefly explains the ASP.NET Core web UI client rendered models available and provides links to get started.
```

### Blazor

> Blazor apps are composed of Blazor components: reusable, web UI components implemented using C#, HTML, and CSS. Both client and server code are written in C#, allowing you to share code and libraries. Blazor components can be rendered or even pre-rendered from views and pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Blazor apps are composed of Blazor components: reusable, web UI components implemented using C#, HTML, and CSS. Both client and server code are written in C#, allowing sharing code and libraries. Blazor components can be rendered or pre-rendered from views and pages.
```

Benefits of Blazor components:

> * Build interactive web UIs using C# instead of JavaScript. Using the same language for front-end and back-end code can:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Build interactive web UIs using C# rather than JavaScript. Using the same language for front-end and back-end code can:
```

* Build interactive web UIs using C# rather than JavaScript. Using the same language for front-end and back-end code can:
  * Accelerate app development.
  * Reduce build pipeline complexity.
  * Simplify maintenance.
  * Leverage the existing .NET ecosystem of [.NET libraries](/dotnet/standard/class-libraries).
  * Let developers understand and work on both client-side and server-side code.
* Create reusable, sharable UI components.
* Quickly get productive with Blazor reusable UI components from [top component vendors](https://blazor.net).
* Work with all modern web browsers, including mobile browsers. Blazor uses open web standards without plug-ins or code transpilation.

For more information, see <xref:blazor/components/prerendering-and-integration>.

> #### Blazor hosting options:

Reviewer 3: Instead of duplicating this content here, can we just say that Blazor components can be hosted in different ways to take advantage of server and client rendering and then point to https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/blazor/hosting-models for a discussion of the different hosting models?

> * Blazor works in all modern web browsers, including mobile browsers. Blazor uses open web standards without plug-ins or code transpilation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Blazor works with all modern web browsers, including mobile browsers. Blazor uses open web standards without plug-ins or code transpilation.
```

> Blazor WebAssembly is a [single-page app (SPA) framework](/dotnet/architecture/modern-web-apps-azure/choose-between-traditional-web-and-single-page-apps) for building interactive client-side web apps that run in the browser on a [WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org/)-based .NET runtime (*Blazor WebAssembly*).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Blazor WebAssembly is a [single-page app (SPA) framework](/dotnet/architecture/modern-web-apps-azure/choose-between-traditional-web-and-single-page-apps) for building interactive client-side web apps that run in the browser on a [WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org/) based .NET runtime (*Blazor WebAssembly*).
```
Don't mix styles

Benefits of Blazor WebAssembly:

* Uses open web standards without plugins or recompiling code into other languages.

> * Works in all modern web browsers, including mobile browsers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Works with all modern web browsers, including mobile browsers.
```

* WebAssembly code can access the full functionality of the browser via JavaScript, called *JavaScript interoperability*.

> To get started with your first ASP.NET Core Blazor WebAssembly app, see [Tooling for ASP.NET Core Blazor](xref:blazor/tooling). For a complete overview of ASP.NET Core Blazor WebAssembly, its architecture and benefits, see [Overview of Blazor WebAssembly](xref:blazor/index#blazor-webassembly).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started with ASP.NET Core Blazor WebAssembly , see [Tooling for ASP.NET Core Blazor](xref:blazor/tooling). For an overview of ASP.NET Core Blazor WebAssembly, its architecture and benefits, see [Overview of Blazor WebAssembly](xref:blazor/index#blazor-webassembly).
```

#### ASP.NET Core Blazor Server

ASP.NET Core Blazor Server has the advantage of direct access to server resources, while providing model for building rich, interactive, and composable user interfaces in C#. Blazor Server components are UI elements such as a page, dialog, or data entry form, that handle client-side web UI interactions. The client-side web UI interactions are handled over a websocket connection, and can span multiple connections to increase speed. Blazor components keep track of the state of the client-side DOM and efficiently apply updates to only the components that need it.

Blazor Server benefits:

* Share app logic across server and client..

> * Flexibility of direct access to server resources, in a protected environment. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Flexibility of direct access to server resources. For example:
```

>   * Database access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Database.
```

>   * Access to secrets, such as an access key used for API calls to Azure storage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Secrets, such as an access key-values used for API calls to Azure storage.
```
Should be consistent with the other time you had this same block

  * Database.
  * Secrets, such as access key-values used for API calls to [Azure Storage](/azure/storage/).
* Uses a token-based security model, rather than using cookies. For example, cookies may not be enabled on the browser.

To get started with ASP.NET Core Blazor Server, see [Get started with Blazor](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/learn/aspnet/blazor-tutorial/intro). For an overview of ASP.NET Core Blazor Server, its architecture and benefits, see <xref:blazor/index>.

> ### ASP.NET Core MVC plus hosted Blazor WebAssembly

Reviewer 3: Earlier in the article it says that you can build server rendered UI, client rendered UI, or a hybrid of both. I think this section is addressing the hybrid use case. Perhaps it should go last then after SPA, which is a client scenario?

Also, this section only talks about Blazor WebAssembly, but you can render Blazor components from pages and views using Blazor Server too. Prerendering your components from a Blazor Server app is actually simpler because the components are already being run from the server. With Blazor WebAssembly prerendering is a bit trickier because you have to think about what it means to run the same component on both the server and client. But both scenarios are fully supported.

This section should link to https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/blazor/components/prerendering-and-integration

> * Uses a token-based security model, rather than using cookies that may or may not be enabled on the browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Uses a token-based security model, rather than using cookies. For example, cookies may not be enabled on the browser.
```

> To get started with your first ASP.NET Core Blazor Server app, see [Get started with Blazor](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/learn/aspnet/blazor-tutorial/intro). For a complete overview of ASP.NET Core Blazor Server, its architecture and benefits, see [Introduction to ASP.NET Core Blazor](xref:blazor/index).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started with ASP.NET Core Blazor Server, see [Get started with Blazor](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/learn/aspnet/blazor-tutorial/intro). For an overview of ASP.NET Core Blazor Server, its architecture and benefits, see [Introduction to ASP.NET Core Blazor](xref:blazor/index).
```

MVC and Blazor are both part of the ASP.NET Core framework and are designed to be used together. Razor components can be integrated into Razor Pages and MVC apps in a hosted Blazor WebAssembly solution. When the page or view is rendered, components can be prerendered at the same time.

Choose ASP.NET Core MVC plus Blazor WebAssembly when these benefits best fit your web UI app needs:

* Prerendering:
  * Executes Razor components on the server and renders them into a page or view.
      * Improves the perceived load time of the app while setting up interactivity.
* Add islands of interactivity to existing views (pages) with the [Component Tag Helper](xref:mvc/views/tag-helpers/builtin-th/component-tag-helper).

To get started with ASP.NET Core MVC plus Blazor WebAssembly, see <xref:blazor/components/prerendering-and-integration>.

### ASP.NET Core Single Page Application (SPA) with JavaScript Frameworks such as Angular and React

> Build client-side logic for ASP.NET Core apps using popular JavaScript frameworks, like [Angular](https://angular.io/) or [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/). ASP.NET Core provides project templates for Angular and React.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Build client-side logic for ASP.NET Core apps using popular JavaScript frameworks, like [Angular](https://angular.io/) or [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/). ASP.NET Core provides project templates for Angular and React, and can be used with other JavaScript frameworks as well.
```

Benefits of ASP.NET Core SPA with JavaScript Frameworks, in addition to the client rendering benefits previously listed:

* The JavaScript runtime environment is already provided with the browser.
* Large community and mature ecosystem.

> * Build client-side logic for ASP.NET Core apps using popular JS frameworks, like Angular and React, or build your client-side logic with .NET using Blazor.

Reviewer 3: This last bullet doesn't really sound like a benefit of building JS based SPAs with ASP.NET Core.

---
title: Choose an ASP.NET Core UI
author: wadepickett
description: Understand when to use the various ASP.NET Core web UI technologies Microsoft provides and supports.
ms.author: wpickett
ms.date: 06/30/2021
no-loc: [Home, Privacy, Kestrel, appsettings.json, "ASP.NET Core Identity", cookie, Cookie, Blazor, "Blazor Server", "Blazor WebAssembly", "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: tutorials/choose-web-ui
---
# Choose an ASP.NET Core web UI

ASP.NET Core is a complete end to end UI framework.  You choose which functionalities to combine that fit your web UI app needs.

Start by determining if your web UI app will primarily benefit from pre-rendering UI on the server, or rendering UI at the client browser. Then review the server rendered or client rendered ASP.NET Core project types to find which best fit your apps needs. 

## Choose an ASP.NET Core web UI technology

Use the following flowchart to select an ASP.NET Core web UI technology:

> ![Decision tree for ASP.NET Core web UI technology](choose-web-ui/_static/choose_ui.png)

Reviewer 3: I don't think this decision tree adds much value in its current form. The branch conditions aren't very descriptive and it makes it look  like working with ASP.NET Core is complicated. As much as possible we want users to feel like there is one  happy path solution for any web UI scenario that they want to implement.

Author: @danroth27, Thanks for the feedback!   Should I beef up branch descriptions and try to make it more helpful, or remove it?  I felt it helped provide a picture of what you need to choose from and when, and  to get a handle quickly on the choices. 
 That said I personally find a visual map very helpful for sorting out the larger picture in my brain, perhaps more than the average developer.

Reviewer 3: I think we're better off removing it. I don't see an easy path for clarifying the graphic.

Author: Removed graphic, thanks.

> ## Choose server rendered UI or client rendered UI

Reviewer 3: This really isn't an up front one time choice for a given app. You often end up having both server-side and client-side UI rendering in the same web app. For example, in an MVC app most of the rendering happens from the server, but you still end up using client-side logic for form validation. In Blazor apps you prerender UI from the server, but then most of the UI interactions get handled client-side. Instead of framing this as an up front decision, I think we'll need to structure this doc more around common scenarios/patterns and the ASP.NET Core technologies that you use to implement them.

Author: I changed this from a hard decision structure to more informative of Server side and Client side benefits awareness to help shape the decision, and then followed by benefits of each app architecture (project type).  Understanding which ones "primarily" do the work on the server or client still seemed helpful.  I also repositioned Blazor to focus on Blazor components first, then the advantages of the hosting options.

> There are two general approaches to building modern web UI:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are two general approaches to building modern web UI with ASP.NET Core:
```

There are other ways to build web UI outside of ASP.NET Core, like using static site generators.

> * Apps that render UI on the server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Apps that render UI from the server.
```

* Apps that render UI on the client in the browser.

> There are benefits and drawbacks to consider for either approach. A hybrid approach is also possible.  For example, most of the web UI is rendered on the server, and client rendered pages are added as needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are benefits and drawbacks to consider for either approach. A hybrid approach is also possible.  For example, most of the web UI is rendered on the server, and client rendered components are added as needed.
```

Author: Fixed in commit c6dbc69, thanks

### When to choose a server rendered UI approach

A web UI app that renders on the server dynamically generates the page's HTML and CSS on the server. The page arrives at the client ready to display.

> Benefits:

Reviewer 3: Server rendered UI is also great for faster load times and for anything that involves static site analysis, like search engine optimization.

* The client requirements are minimal since the server does the work of logic and page generation:
  * Great for low-end devices and low-bandwidth connections.
  * Allows for a broad range of browser versions at the client.
  * Minimal to no code to pull to the client.
* Flexibility of access to server resources, in a protected environment. For example:
  * Database access.
  * Access to secrets, such as an access key used for API calls to Azure storage.

> * Uses a token-based security model, rather than using cookies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

We generally use cookies for authentication with MVC & Razor Pages.

> Examples of server rendered web UI apps:

Reviewer 3: I'm don't think we can say that these app types are always or even typically server rendered. These app types can be implemented using a variety of approaches.

* A website for bank services.
* A blog.
* A public-facing content management system.

Drawbacks:

* The cost of compute and memory use are concentrated on the server, rather than each client.

> * Rich interactivity isn't instant: Rich interactive-driven changes are best generated on the client, rather than requiring a round trip to the server to generate an updated page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* User interactions require a round trip to the server to generate UI updates.
```

### When to choose a client rendered UI approach

> A client rendered web UI app dynamically renders UI on the client, generating and updating the page on the client.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A client rendered app dynamically renders web UI on the client, directly updating the browser DOM as necessary.
```

Benefits:

* Takes advantage of the capabilities of the user’s device.

> * Allows for rich interactivity that is instant, without requiring a round trip to the server. UI event handling and logic runs locally on the user's device with minimal latency. Choose a client rendered application if your app's requirements include rich functionality that goes beyond what typical HTML forms offer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Allows for rich interactivity that is instant, without requiring a round trip to the server. UI event handling and logic runs locally on the user's device with minimal latency. Choose a client rendered application if your app's requirements include rich user interactions.
```

Even forms can have all sorts of user interactions that end up requiring client-side logic, like client-side validation.

* Supports incremental updates, saving partially completed forms or documents without the user having to select a button to submit a form.
* Can be designed to run in a disconnected mode. Updates to the client-side model that are eventually synchronized back to the server once a connection is re-established.

Examples of client rendered web UI:

* An interactive dashboard.
* An app featuring drag-and-drop functionality

> * A responsive and collaborative social app.

Reviewer 3: I like how this list is more focused on specific UI scenarios than broad app types.

Drawbacks:

> * Code for the logic has to be downloaded to the client, adding to the initial load time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Code for the logic has to be downloaded and executed on the client, adding to the initial load time.
```

> * Uses cookies rather than a Token based security model. Cookies may or may not be enabled on the user's browser.

Reviewer 3: We typically use token based security with client apps.

### ASP.NET Core Razor Pages

Razor Pages is a page-based model that is easy to get started with. UI and business logic concerns are kept separate, but within the page. Razor Pages is the preferred way to create page-based or form-based apps in ASP.NET Core.

Razor Pages benefits, in addition to the server rendering benefits previously listed:

* Quickly build and update UI.  What you need to code for the page is kept with the page, while keeping UI and business logic concerns separate.
* Testable and scales to large apps.
* Keep your ASP.NET Core pages organized in a simpler way:
  * All view (page) specific logic and page properties (view model) can be kept together in their own namespace and directory.  
  * Groups of related pages can be kept in their own namespace and directory.

To get started with your first ASP.NET Core Razor Pages app, see [Get started with Razor Pages](xref:tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start). For a complete overview of ASP.NET Core Razor Pages, its architecture, and benefits,  [Introduction to Razor Pages in ASP.NET Core](xref:razor-pages/index)

> ### ASP.NET MVC

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### ASP.NET Core MVC
```

Same throughout the doc to avoid confusion with MVC for .NET Framework.

> ASP.NET MVC renders UI on the server and uses a Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectural pattern. The MVC pattern separates an application into three main groups of components: Models, Views, and Controllers. User requests are routed to a Controller.  The Controller is responsible for working with the Model to perform user actions and, or retrieve results of queries. The Controller chooses the View to display to the user, and provides it with any Model data it requires.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ASP.NET MVC renders UI on the server and uses a Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectural pattern. The MVC pattern separates an application into three main groups of components: Models, Views, and Controllers. User requests are routed to a Controller.  The Controller is responsible for working with the Model to perform user actions and, or retrieve results of queries. The Controller chooses the View to display to the user, and provides it with any Model data it requires. Support for Razor Pages is built on ASP.NET Core MVC.
```

MVC benefits, in addition to the server rendering benefits previously listed:

* Easier to scale the web UI application in terms of complexity. It's easier to code, debug, and test something (model, view, or controller) that has a single job.
* Clear [separation of concerns](/dotnet/standard/modern-web-apps-azure-architecture/architectural-principles#separation-of-concerns) for maximum flexibility.
* The Model-View-Controller separation of responsibilities ensures that the business model can evolve without being tightly coupled to low-level implementation details.

To get started with your first ASP.NET Core MVC app, see [Get started with MVC](xref:tutorials/first-mvc-app/start-mvc). For a complete overview of ASP.NET Core MVC, its architecture and benefits, see [Overview of ASP.NET Core MVC](xref:mvc/overview)

## Choose a client rendered ASP.NET Core solution

The following section briefly explains the ASP.NET Core web UI client rendered models available and directs you to the next steps to get started.

> ### ASP.NET Core Blazor WebAssembly

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Blazor
```

We have content describing the tradeoffs with the different Blazor hosting models here: https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/blazor/hosting-models. I'd like to avoid duplicating that content here. Instead I think this section should focus on Blazor as a client-side web UI framework (independent of hosting model) and the tradeoffs of using Blazor vs other JS frameworks.

WebAssembly code can access the full functionality of the browser via JavaScript, called *JavaScript interoperability*. .NET code executed via WebAssembly in the browser runs in the browser's JavaScript sandbox with the protections that the sandbox provides against malicious actions on the client machine.

Benefits:

* Build interactive web UIs using C# instead of JavaScript. Using the same language for front-end and back-end code can:
  * Accelerate app development.
  * Reduce build pipeline complexity.
  * Simplify maintenance.
  * Let developers understand and work on both client-side and server-side code.
* Reusable, sharable UI components: Blazor apps are composed of reusable web UI components implemented using C#, HTML, and CSS. Both client and server code  are written in C#, allowing you to share code and libraries.
* Blazor works in all modern web browsers, including mobile browsers. Blazor uses open web standards without plug-ins or code transpilation.

> * Quickly get productive with Blazor reusable UI components from top component vendors like:

Reviewer 3: This list of component vendors has to get updated regularly. We have a list that we maintain on the https://blazor.net page. I'd prefer not to have to maintain a parallel list here.

Blazor Server benefits:

* Create rich interactive UIs using [C#](/dotnet/csharp/) instead of [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com).
* Share server-side and client-side app logic written in .NET.
* Render the UI as HTML and CSS for wide browser support, including mobile browsers.
* Share app logic across server and client.
* Leverage the existing .NET ecosystem of [.NET libraries](/dotnet/standard/class-libraries).
* Flexibility of access to server resources, in a protected environment. For example:
  * Database access.
  * Access to secrets, such as an access key used for API calls to Azure storage.
* Uses a token-based security model, rather than using cookies that may or may not be enabled on the browser.

To get started with your first ASP.NET Core Blazor Server app, see [Get started with Blazor](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/learn/aspnet/blazor-tutorial/intro). For a complete overview of ASP.NET Core Blazor Server, its architecture and benefits, see [Introduction to ASP.NET Core Blazor](xref:blazor/index).

> ### ASP.NET Core MVC plus hosted Blazor WebAssembly

Reviewer 3: We should generalize this section a bit and link to existing content. You can use Blazor components with both Razor Pages and Views. Those components can be hosted using Blazor Server or Blazor WebAssembly. The components can be prerendered or not. This is covered in detail here: https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/blazor/components/prerendering-and-integration (note the hosting model pivot in the doc).  In this doc we just need to make some general statements about how Blazor components can be rendered or even prerendered from views and pages. Maybe this should just be listed as a benefit of using Blazor instead of being an entire section?

Author: @danroth27, I could re-organizing both Blazor Server and Blazor WebAssembly to be a subset of Blazor which quickly introduces Blazor Components and benefits first.    
Here is what it would look like:
- Blazor (Section heading)
-- Blazor components and their benefits plus flexibility of being used for Razor Pages and Views, plus the flexibility of being used in both Blazor Server and Blazor WebAssembly hosting options.
- - -Blazor Server quick intro, benefits, links.
- - -Blazor WebAssembly quick intro, benefits, links.

Would that work better?  Or leave the org as is with Blazor Server and Blazor Web Assembly (but of course fix description of Blazor components as you mentioned above in either case.)

Author: Updated to the organization I just pointed out above.  See what you think.

MVC and Blazor are both part of the ASP.NET Core framework and are designed to be used together. Razor components can be integrated into Razor Pages and MVC apps in a hosted Blazor WebAssembly solution. When the page or view is rendered, components can be prerendered at the same time.

Choose ASP.NET Core MVC plus Blazor WebAssembly when these benefits best fit your Web UI app needs:

* Prerendering:
  * Executes Blazor components on the server and renders them into a page or view.
	* Improves the perceived load time of the app while interactivity is being set up.
* Add islands of interactivity to existing views (pages), using the component tag helper.

To get started with ASP.NET Core MVC plus Blazor WebAssembly, see [Prerender and integrate ASP.NET Core Razor components](xref:blazor/components/prerendering-and-integration).

### ASP.NET Core Single Page Application (SPA) with JavaScript Frameworks such as Angular and React

> Build client-side logic for ASP.NET Core apps using popular JavaScript frameworks, like [Angular](https://angular.io/) or [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/).  ASP.NET Core provides project templates for Angular, React, and React plus Redux.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Build client-side logic for ASP.NET Core apps using popular JavaScript frameworks, like [Angular](https://angular.io/) or [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/).  ASP.NET Core provides project templates for Angular and React.
```

The React + Redux template is going away due to low usage.

Benefits of ASP.NET Core SPA with JavaScript Frameworks, in addition to the client rendering benefits previously listed:

* Client-side UI frameworks run on the user’s device in the browser
* Client-based apps take advantage of the capabilities of the user’s device and provide rich interactivity.
* Build client-side logic for ASP.NET Core apps using popular JS frameworks, like Angular and React, or build your client-side logic with .NET using Blazor.
* Client-based apps can be deployed as standalone static sites, but often call into server hosted functionality through APIs.

> * Make your app installable and run offline by turning it into a Progressive Web App (PWA).

Reviewer 3: These are all benefits of client-side web apps, but none of these appear to be specific to using JS. Instead I think we should list things like: 

- JS runtime included with the browser. No need to download one with your app.
- Large community and mature ecosystem

The downsides are that you have to now use a different language, different tools, different frameworks, etc. You can't really share code, so logic often needs to get duplicated.

To get started, see:

* [Use the Angular project template with ASP.NET Core](xref:spa/angular)
* [Use the React project template with ASP.NET Core](xref:spa/react)

> * [Use the React-with-Redux project template with ASP.NET Core](xref:spa/react-with-redux)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

* Prerendering:
  * Executes Razor components on the server and renders them into a page or view.
      * Improves the perceived load time of the app while setting up interactivity.

> * Add islands of interactivity to existing views (pages) with the <xref:mvc/views/tag-helpers/builtin-th/component-tag-helper>.

Reviewer: This one will throw the title that includes "in ASP.NET Core" such that it won't jive with the text. It will read ...

> Add islands of interactivity to existing views (pages) with the Component Tag Helper in ASP.NET Core.

Author: ```suggestion
* Add islands of interactivity to existing views (pages) with the [Component Tag Helper](xref:mvc/views/tag-helpers/builtin-th/component-tag-helper).
```
